[Music]
you know Merce oceans are only five
percent explored on the other hand outer
space is supremely larger and we haven't
explored even a hundredth of a percent
of it yet what we have already learned
is mind-blowing lookie here earth had a
five foot wide mini Mon in 2019 our Mon
tugged it into the Earth's orbit where
it stayed for at least a year the Great
Red Spot on Jupiter is a gargantuan
storm that's been raging for at least
400 years now back when it was first
found it was three times the size of our
whole planet the farthest we can see
into space today is thirteen point two
billion light years it took the hubble
space telescope ten years to make a
single image that far the universe is
thought to be 13.7 billion years old
but it's constantly expanding and now is
probably about 93 billion light years in
diameter but that's only what we can
observe scientists believe there's
trillions upon trillions of light-years
of space beyond the edge of the
observable universe comets are thought
to come to the solar system from the
Oort cloud a theoretical asteroid field
that's about 2,000 times as far from us
as the Sun black holes aren't completely
black they have a barely visible hue of
their own on Mars thanks to the large
amount of magnetic dust in the
atmosphere the sunsets are dusky blue
the largest asteroid in the solar system
is called Vesta and it's so big that it
sometimes even called a dwarf planet a
trip to the nearest star apart from the
Sun would take you five million years on
a commercial airplane that's what I call
a long haul
flight it would take you about a hundred
thousand years to travel from one end of
our Milky Way galaxy to the other at the
speed of life on a plane that's just too
many zeros to fit into a single screen
the Sun can fit about a million earths
inside it but there's a star called uy
scuti that's about 1700 times larger
than the Sun almost everything in space
is connected with everything else by
gravity star systems are part of
galaxies galaxies are part of clusters
and clusters are parts of super clusters
the largest known super cluster in the
universe is the Hercules Corona borealis
great wall that's a name it's more than
ten billion light-years wide Mars has
the largest natural formations in the
solar system the mountain three times
taller than Everest the canyon almost
seven times longer than the Grand Canyon
and the crater that could fit half the
Amazon River across it
although the Big Bang Theory is the most
viable one researchers still find
evidence against it for example one
theory suggests there's an axis around
which the whole universe rotates it's
aptly named the axis of evil' there's a
supermassive black hole at the center of
almost every major galaxy including ours
black holes can attract not only stars
and planets but also other black holes
eventually merging and becoming one with
a much greater mass the spinning
movement and enormous gravity of black
holes sometimes makes it throw jets of
matter into space traveling at almost
the speed of light there's a thing
called the Great Attractor it's a
gravitational anomaly outside our galaxy
that can't be seen but is known to
attract the Milky Way and lots of other
galaxies toward itself
the winds on Neptune reached the speeds
of sixteen hundred miles per hour that's
three times faster than a commercial
airplane temperatures at the moon's
South Pole
reach minus 397 degrees Fahrenheit which
just might be the coldest in the entire
solar system
Saturn is less dense than water so if it
were thrown into a giant pool it would
float Jupiter's moon Europa is covered
in a thick layer of ice but underneath
it is a vast ocean of water measuring up
to 100 miles deep what our eyes was
previously thought to be rare and only
common for earth but it can in fact be
found all over the solar system even on
Mercury and the moon
Saturn's magnificent rings are a belt of
space debris that formed after one of
its moons fell apart Jupiter Neptune and
Uranus also have rings although not as
splendidly as Saturn's and even some
asteroids have them too there are eight
confirmed planets in the solar system
but evidence shows there can be a ninth
we just haven't discovered it yet
organic matter could have been brought
to Earth by comets since it has been
found on several of them Saturn also has
a never-ending storm just like Jupiter
but it's also peculiar for its shape it
has six distinct sides
Mercury and Venus are the only planets
in the solar system that have no known
moons Jupiter has 79 known moons
orbiting it the largest of which is
Ganymede and it's bigger than mercury it
was thought that the Milky Way is a belt
before but now we know it's a spiral
galaxy footprints on the moon can't
disappear because there's no wind to
blow them off the surface there's a
theoretical possibility of a white hole
the reverse of a black hole nothing can
enter it from outside but light and
matter can escape from within it
Triton a Neptune's moon orbits the
planet in a backwards motion it's the
only moon that does so and nobody knows
why although there are trillions of
stars in space we can only see a tiny
fraction of them in the sky sure on
Pluto's moon is half the size of its
planet which is why Pluto orbits a bit
around a spot outside its own axis all
the objects in space including planets
interstellar dust and whole galaxies
comprise just about 4% of the universe
the rest is dark matter and dark energy
that can't be seen and isn't fully
understood dark flow is a hypothetical
movement of galaxies and clusters that's
not random this is another mystery that
makes scientists doubt the Big Bang
Theory the closest galaxies to us is
Andromeda and it's over two and a half
million light-years away because there's
no air in space sound can travel through
it so it's completely silent
so all those explosions and rocket noise
you hear in sci-fi movies mm-hmm not
real we can still hear space though
transforming its magnetic and plasma
waves into sound the center of our Milky
Way galaxy
tastes like raspberries so we're told
mercury is still shrinking which means
it hasn't completely formed yet in 2004
a planet was discovered that's 30
percent diamund the Sun is so huge that
it makes up for about 99% of the solar
system's mass there are planets where it
rains glass acid molten iron and
diamonds you're gonna need a tougher
umbrella there a day on Venus is longer
than a year it takes the planet 243
Earth days to rotate around itself and
only 225 days to make a full circle
around the Sun space isn't entirely cold
it can't get scorching hot when indirect
starlight the movement of galaxies and
clusters billions of light-years away
from us suggests there's some enormous
ly massive body outside the visible
universe after billions of years the
expansion of the universe will make the
space so sparse that we won't be able to
see the stars in the sky at all
astronomers can predict asteroids going
towards the earth but only to a degree
and only when they're close enough in
about four billion years time the Milky
Way and Andromeda galaxies will collide
but we'll probably not even notice it
about five million years ago the
supermassive black hole at the center of
our galaxy launched a star from itself
and it's now traveling through the Milky
Way ten times faster than any other star
out there there are planets that aren't
bound to any star orbit and aimlessly
wander through outer space some stars
out there take the energy of other stars
to burn for longer neutron stars are
some of the smallest yet the most
massive objects in space they're usually
about twelve miles in diameter but are
several times heavier than the Sun oh
and they also spin about 600 times per
second cold welding is a phenomenon in
space when two pieces of the same metal
joined together without any trouble and
heat because Uranus is tilted on its
side it's got over 40 years of summer
followed by the same period of winter in
our galaxy alone there are about 500
million stars capable of supporting life
some scientists believe in the
multiverse that is that there are many
possible variations of the universe
outside our own the universe is not only
expanding but is doing so at an
ever-increasing rate
dark energy is thought to be the culprit
behind it we know or at least guess
about the existence of the Big Bang
because the microwaves in space are made
up of distant echoes of that grand event
at a distance of about 10 billion light
years from Earth there's a floating
cloud of water in space its volume is
140 trillion times more than that of
Earth's oceans one theory suggests that
the moon had once been part of the earth
but broke away because of an impact from
outer space finally if you find two golf
balls on the moon they belong to Alan
Shepard he'd like them back hey if you
learned something new today then give
the video a like and share it with a
friend and here are some other videos I
think you'll enjoy just click to the
left or
and remember stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]